>> To understand,
as human beings,
we all want to know causation,
what causes something else
to happen.
The difficulty is in
assigning causation
with many of our exposures
in our modern world.
The historical way
in which it was done
involves something
called Koch's postulates.
Koch lived in the
late 1800s, and he
developed a series of
postulates to explain causation.
These were done in the
context of infectious disease.
What he said is that if you
took a person, let's say,
that had some kind
of an infection--
he was primarily looking
at bacterial infections--
and you were able to isolate
bacteria from them and take
those bacteria, grow them up
outside of the person in some
kind of flask, or in
a vial or something,
and take those and inject
them into a another species--
an animal, usually
rabbits, mice, but it
could be any animal--
and you could cause
the same disease
that occurred in that
person in the animal, that
was proof of causation.
That was sort of like
100% kind of causation.
Well, that's a very
mathematical kind of formula.
The problem is that when we
talk about dental amalgams
or any kind of other
exposures, lots of people
are exposed to these things.
We all know that.
Only some of us develop disease.
So instead, there's obviously
a much broader explanation
that's necessary.
And that's where, in the
world of epidemiology,
these criteria have
been developed.
They're called
Bradford Hill criteria.
He was a very famous
epidemiologist
in the mid 1900s
who said, obviously,
we have lots of exposures.
Only some people have disease.
We have to make a inference--
as opposed to direct,
an inference--
as to causation.
And he developed a whole series
of criteria of various things
you might need in order
to prove causation.
You don't need all of them.
Some of them suffice.
And it's a gray line
when you cross that line.
That's why people
might disagree.
I might say causes.
Somebody next to me would say,
well, maybe not quite enough
to prove causation yet.
And what he described are
some very simple things
to understand.
One of the most basic
is the relationship
of cause and effect.
If you have an exposure, it
needs to precede the outcome.
If you have somebody, let's
say, that has Alzheimer's and it
turns out, well,
the mercury exposure
occurred after they had
Alzheimer's, it can't cause.
I mean, we all understand that.
So mercury exposure
would have to happen,
then you get the
diagnosis to allow what's
called a temporal relationship.
Another element of it
that's very important
is animal studies.
What happens in an animal
if you inject mercury?
Where does it go?
Does it persist?
What kind of damage
does it cause?
Does it look like what the
person is suffering from?
In addition, he describes
the plausibility of it.
Is it scientifically plausible?
Are we saying that, in
the case of mercury, well,
is it damaging the brain?
That's a very plausible thing.
If we say that something that
doesn't even go to the brain
is damaging the brain,
that's very implausible, not
impossible, but implausible.
So plausibility
provides an element.
In addition, he
described epidemiology,
observing large
numbers of people.
Do people who have the
exposure tend to have
more risk of the outcome?
So that can be important.
Also, understanding the
elements of susceptibility.
How does this work?
What makes one person
affected and not another?
And there are many
more like this.